## What is a Rate Limiter?
A rate limiter, at a high-level, limits the number of events an entity (user, device, IP, etc.) can perform in a particular time window. For example:

* A user can send only one message per second.
* A user is allowed only three failed credit card transactions per day.
* A single IP can only create twenty accounts per day.

In general, a rate limiter caps how many requests a sender can issue in a specific time window. It then blocks requests once the cap is reached.

## Need of API rate limiting
Rate Limiting helps to protect services against abusive behaviors targeting the application layer like Denial-of-service (DOS) attacks, brute-force password attempts, brute-force credit card transactions, etc. These attacks are usually a barrage of HTTP/S requests which may look like they are coming from real users, but are typically generated by machines (or bots). As a result, these attacks are often harder to detect and can more easily bring down a service, application, or an API.

Rate limiting is also used to prevent revenue loss, to reduce infrastructure costs, to stop spam and online harassment. Following is a list of scenarios that can benefit from Rate limiting by making a service (or API) more reliable:

* Misbehaving clients/scripts: Example scenario could be when a user is sending a lot of lower-priority requests, and we want to make sure that it doesn’t affect the high-priority traffic. For example, users sending a high volume of requests for analytics data should not be allowed to hamper critical transactions for other users.
* Security: By limiting the number of the second-factor attempts (in 2-factor auth) that the users are allowed to perform, for example, the number of times they’re allowed to try with a wrong password.
* To keep costs and resource usage under control
* Revenue: Certain services might want to limit operations based on the tier of their customer’s service, and thus create a revenue model based on rate limiting. There could be default limits for all the APIs a service offers. To go beyond that, the user has to buy higher limits
* To eliminate spikiness in traffic: So that a service stays up for everyone else.

## How to do Rate Limiting?
Rate Limiting is a process that is used to define the rate and speed at which consumers can access APIs. Throttling can be defined at the application level and/or API level. When a throttle limit is crossed, the server returns “429” as HTTP status to the user with message content as “Too many requests”.
