Load balancing helps you scale horizontally across an ever-increasing number of servers, but caching will enable you to make vastly better use of the resources you already have, as well as making otherwise unattainable product requirements feasible. Caches take advantage of the locality of reference principle: recently requested data is likely to be requested again. They are used in almost every layer of computing: hardware, operating systems, web browsers, web applications and more. A cache is like short-term memory: it has a limited amount of space, but is typically faster than the original data source and contains the most recently accessed items. Caches can exist at all levels in architecture but are often found at the level nearest to the front end, where they are implemented to return data quickly without taxing downstream levels.
* **Application Server Cache**
Placing a cache directly on a request layer node enables the local storage of response data. Each time a request is made to the service, the node will quickly return local, cached data if it exists. If it is not in the cache, the requesting node will query the data from disk.

  **Cons:** What happens when you expand this to many nodes? If the request layer is expanded to multiple nodes, it’s still quite possible to have each node host its own cache. However, if your load balancer randomly distributes requests across the nodes, the same request will go to different nodes, thus increasing cache misses. Two choices for overcoming this hurdle are global caches and distributed caches.
* **Distributed Cache**
In a distributed cache, each of its nodes own part of the cached data. Typically, the cache is divided up using a consistent hashing function, such that if a request node is looking for a certain piece of data, it can quickly know where to look within the distributed cache to determine if that data is available.

  **Cons:** How to resolve a missing node. Some distributed caches get around this by using redundant nodes; however, you can imagine how this logic can get complicated quickly, especially when you add or remove nodes from the request layer.
* **Global Cache**
A global cache is just as it sounds: all the nodes use the same single cache space. This involves adding a server, or file store of some sort, faster than your original store and accessible by all the request layer nodes. Each of the request nodes queries the cache in the same way it would a local one.
